Hi everybody! Just finished my first playthrough of the DLC, and here’s my NPC list so far, from what I’ve seen and put together from the Wikis. Let me know what I'm missing, and I'll add it in.

This guide includes only the NPC interactions. You'll want to fully explore each of the locations as you go.

It is surprisingly easy to lock yourself out of questlines in this DLC. You may want to copy your save at the start of each location, just in case.

Find the guide for the main game here.

Graveside Plain/Cerulean Coast

Speak to Leda at the Cocoon of the Empyrean Grace
Speak to Freyja and Hornsent at the Three-Path Cross Grace
At Main Gate Cross Grace, purchase something from Moore. Then speak to Moore and Ansbach. Reload the area and speak to Ansbach again.
Forager Brood Cookbook #2: Head south from the Main Gate Cross. Then, head South East from the Cliffside Terminus grace. These NPC's look like the Kindred of Rot enemy, but they are unaggressive, and killing them will result in Moore invading you and then permanently dying. If Moore dies for any reason, the forager brood will disappear.
Defeat the invading Fire Knight Queelign, just past the Small Private Altar Grace in Belurat
Pick up the storage room key, on the main path following the Small Private Altar Grace. Then, unlock the door by veering left after the Small Private Altar Grace and speak to Hornsent Grandam.
After finding the cross in Belurat, speak to Ansbach at the Main Gate Cross. Location: starting at Small Private Altar, continue until you reach a path going left and right. Head left, then climb over the broken walls to the right of the path
(Optional) Summon Freyja to fight the Dancing Lion. Then, speak to her at the Three-Path Cross Grace
Return to speak to Hornsent Grandam wearing the Divine Beast Head. Exhaust her dialogue, reload the area, then speak to her again. Then speak to Hornsent and give him the soup. You can return to Hornsent Grandam for more soup any time you're out. Hornsent won't take any more, but you can offer it again for more dialogue.
Speak to Thiollier at the Pillar Path Cross Grace. Then, speak to Moore at the Main Gate Cross Grace. Then return to Thiollier.
Speak to Igon near the Pillar Path Waypoint Grace. Leave and come back to speak to him again.
Go through the Dragon Pit and head South to speak to the Dragon Communion Priestess at the Grand Altar of Dragon Communion.
Note: There are no NPC's in Charo's Hidden Grove, West of the Dragon Altar, but you can explore that at any time.
After finding the Cerulean Coast Cross, speak to Ansbach at the Main Gate Cross. Location: Jump down some Ruins from Charo's Grove. The cross is on a hill to the South West)
Forager Brood Cookbook #3: NE of the Cerulean Coast Grace, past the Furnace Golem and the Fulgurbloom Field
(Optional) Summon Leda to fight Rellana
Scadu Altus/Church District

Note: Getting close to the Shadow Keep will cause NPCs to enter a new phase. So explore the other directions first.
Talk to Leda and Hornsent at the Highcross Road Grace. Then speak to Freyja at Three-Path Cross Grace
Defeat the invading Fire Knight Queelign at the Church of the Crusade
Forager Brood Cookbook #4: Find an injured Forager Brood North of the Church of the Crusade. Use a warming stone on it. Then, reload the area and return to that location.
Once you have Forager Brood Cookbook #4, return to speak to Moore.
Talk to Dryleaf Dane at the Moorth Ruins Grace. Do the “May the Best Win” gesture to trigger a duel. Then, talk to Leda at the Highcross Road Grace.
Forager Brood Cookbook #1: NW of the Ruined Forge of Starfall Past.
Forager Brood Cookbook #5: North from the Moorth Highway through a tunnel at the North end of the lake, on the way to Rauh Base. Follow the cliffside on the right to find it.
Note: There are no NPC interactions in Rauh Base, but you can explore that location at any time.
Find an Iris of Occultation, by killing the enemy in the bottom section of the Fort of Reprimand to the South
After finding the Scaduview Cross, speak to Ansbach. Location: From Moorth Highway, South Grace, head out toward the encampment and follow the Eastern cliffside around. Pass the closed Spiritspring, you will find rocks to break to open the Spiritspring. Take that up to this cross.
Drop down through a tunnel in Moorth ruins to get to Bonny Village. Pick up the “O Mother” gesture from a body North East of Bonny Village (needed for Ymir’s questline)
Once you receive the “Somewhere a Great Rune Has Broken” message, return and exhaust the dialogue with Leda, Hornsent, Thiollier, Freyja, and Ansbach. Make any choice with Leda - it does not change the outcome. Wait to speak to Moore until after you've collected Forager Brood cookbooks #1-6.
Forager Brood Cookbook #6: on the cliffs above the Church District Entrance, near the castle.
Speak to Moore once you have Forager Brood cookbooks #1-6. For the endgame consequences of Moore’s choice, see the Enir Ilim section at the bottom. This will be your last chance to speak to Moore, so make sure you exhaust his dialogue.
(Note: You are able to access the back/top section of the Shadow Keep Storeroom via an elevator in the Church District. You can explore the back/top section now, but do not drop down into the lower Storeroom or you will miss out on some Shadow Keep plot points)
Find an Iris of Occultation by killing the Ulcerated Tree Spirit the Church District Entrance after draining the water
Find an Iris of Grace beneath the Marika statue just before the Tree-Worship Sanctum
Use the Prayer Room Key on a locked door in the Church District (North East of Bonny Village) to speak to Queelign. You can choose to give him an Iris of Grace, resulting in him turning into spirit ashes or an Iris of Occultation, resulting in him dying and dropping his weapon
Speak to Ymir at the Cathedral of Manus Metyr. Afterward, Jolan will appear by the pillar closest to the graveyard. Exhaust her dialogue, then ask Ymir about her.
Fissure:

Head to the southern-most part of the map to reach the Fissure. Then speak to Thiollier.
(Optional) Summon Thiollier to fight the Putrescent Knight
Speak to Thiollier after defeating the Putrescent Knight.
Imbibe the nectar four times. Then speak to Thiollier and exhaust his dialogue.
Imbibe the nectar again. This time Thiollier will invade. Defeat him.
Imbibe the nectar again and speak to Thiollier again.
Jagged Peak - Continuing North from the Dragon Pit Terminus

Speak to Igon after defeating the dragon near the Foot of the Jagged Peak Grace.
Return to the Grand Altar of Dragon Communion to speak to the Dragon Communion Priestess. Choose whether to give her the potion from Thiolier. At the end of her questline, if you don't give her the potion, you receive a consumable and a weapon and if you do, you'll receive an incantation and spirit ashes. To give her the potion, pass time until nightfall, give her the potion, and pass time again until you can speak to her again.
Summon Igon to fight Bayle (required for quest)
Return to Igon
Return to the Dragon Communion Priestess
Shadow Keep/ Upper Ancient Ruins:

(Optional) Summon Freyja and Hornsent to fight the Golden Hippo
Speak to Leda again about Hornsent
Past the Main Gate Plaza, you will reach an area with 6 burning boats and a ramp leading down. To the left of the ramp, there are a pair of summon signs for a fight between Leda and Hornsent. Choosing Leda will provide you with a unique talisman when you talk to her after the fight. Choosing Hornsent will provide you with a unique Ash of war, but will lock you out of Leda's future interactions with Ansbach. If you do not choose either, the fight doesn't happen. See Enir Ilim section below for engame consequences. (Note: These summon signs will disappear once you enter the Mesmer boss room)
Head to the Abyssal woods to meet Midra Here's how to get there:In the same area with 6 burning boats, find a ladder at the end on the left. Climb down and follow the path through a waterfall and an illusory wall until you find a coffin you can climb in. When you arrive, head South along the western wall and descend down the cliff face until you reach the Darklight Catacombs. Head through the Catacombs to reach the Abyssal Woods on the other side.
Speak to Ansbach in the first floor of the Specimen Storehouse. (If you have the Secret Rite Scroll, wait to give it to Ansbach until after Messmer)
Speak to Freyja by the Storehouse, Seventh Floor Grace.
Choose whether to summon Hornsent to fight Messmer and speak to him after the fight (Required for Hornsent's quest - See Enir Ilim for more engame consequences).
(Optional) If you don't summon Hornsent to fight Messmer, you can summon Jolan instead (This may require you to complete the first step in the Finger Ruins section, below. But do not complete the entire Finger Ruins questline).
Return to Belurat to speak to Hornsent Grandam. Exhaust her dialogue, reload the area, and speak to her again.
Speak to Ansbach about Freyja. Then give him the Secret Rite Scroll, found just past the Fourth Floor Storeroom Grace. Continue forward until you find stairs leading down. Reload the area and speak to him again. Choose whether to give Freyja his message (see Enir Ilim section for engame consequences). If you do, speak to Ansbach again.
If Leda is still at High Cross Road, exhaust her dialogue, reloading the area until she starts to repeat herself.
Return to the First Floor Storeroom where Ansbach was to find a pair of summon signs for a fight between Leda and Ansbach. Choosing Ansbach gives you his weapon, and ensures he is alive for the end of the game. Choosing Leda gives you a unique talisman and Ansbach's weapon. You can also skip this fight. See Enir Ilim section for endgame consequences. (Note: For this to trigger, you must either 1) Choose Leda against Hornsent 2) Skip the Hornsent fight and summon Hornsent for Messmer)
Find an Iris of Grace in a makeshift pot hospital on the way from the storeroom to the Ancient Ruins
If alive, Hornsent will invade in the Church of the Bud, just before the Romina boss room (You can find him here, even after the boss)
(Optional) Summon Dane to fight Romina.
Finger Ruins

Follow the Eastern Cerulean coast to the Finger Ruins of Rhia. Use the Hanging Bell. Then, return to speak to Ymir and Jolan at Manus Metyr
Access the Hinterlands by using the O Mother gesture on the statue of Marika near the Shadow Keep, Back Gate. (Optional) Summon Jolan to fight the Tree Sentinel
Follow the Hinterlands path down to the Finger Ruins of Dheo and use the Hanging Bell. Then, return to speak to Ymir and Jolan at Manus Metyr.
Access the Finger Ruins of Myr by exhausting Ymir’s dialogue and reloading the area until he leaves his throne. Then, examine the throne. After defeating Swordhand of Night Anna, return to speak to Jolan.
Use the Hanging Bell and fight Metyr, Mother of Fingers. Then, return to examine Ymir’s throne. You will have to fight Count Ymir.
Reload Manus Metyr. Find an item in the cemetery to the West. Speak to Jolan. You can choose to give her an Iris of Grace, resulting in her turning into spirit ashes or an Iris of Occultation, resulting in her dying and dropping her weapon.
If you gave Jolan Iris of Grace, go to the Shaman Village in the Hinterlands. At the Eastern corner, find a series of dropdowns to allow you to access a section of Rabbath’s Rise, where you'll find Swordhand of Night Anna
Enir Ilim:

In Enir Ilim, some of the NPC’s will attack you and some will help you. This can change slightly, depending on your choices, as outlined below:
Leda: Leda will attack you no matter what.
Freyja: Freyja will attack you if you gave her the letter from Ansbach. Otherwise, she stays in the Storehouse until later in the game, when she disappears and leaves an item behind.
Hornsent: Hornsent will attack you if he is alive and you don't summon him for the Messmer fight. If you take Hornsent's side against Leda, Ansbach's fight against Leda in Shadow Keep will not trigger.
Moore: Moore will attack you if you told him to put it behind him. If you tell him to remain sad forever, he dies and you can find his items North of the Church of the Crusade. If you say you don't know, he stays at the Main Gate Cross.
Ansbach: Ansbach can be summoned to help you, if he's alive and you gave him the scroll
Thiollier: Thiollier can be summoned to help you if you told him all that St. Trina said
Dane: Dane will attack you, no matter what.
Nataan: Helps you if Ansbach is not available. Does not seem to appear in the rest of the game.

Speak to Ansbach at the top of the elevator after the fight.

(Optional) Summon Ansbach and Thiollier for the final boss

After the final boss, rest at the Gate of Divinity grace, and find Ansbach and Thiollier nearby

After the final boss, return to St. Trina at the Fissure to find the St. Trina Blossom.
